Have you ever felt that a change of oversight
or organizational arrangement
was hard to accept?
Or maybe you even felt hurt
in some way personally by the change.
Well, why do these changes occur?
And what is the best way for us
to respond to them,
even if the change seems to be
to our personal disadvantage?
Well, let’s open our Bibles
to Numbers chapter 27
and examine an account
that may help answer these questions.
The account relates to when Jehovah
notified Moses
of his approaching death
and the need for a man
to take over Moses’ responsibilities.
At Numbers chapter 27,
let’s begin at verse 15:
“Then Moses said to Jehovah:
“‘Let Jehovah,
the God of the spirit of all people,
“‘appoint over the assembly a man
“‘who will go out and come in before them
“‘and who will lead them out
and bring them in,
“‘so that Jehovah’s assembly may not become
like sheep that have no shepherd.’”
Why would Moses call Jehovah, describe him
as, “the God of the spirit of all people”?
Because all people
are dependent on Jehovah for life.
Moses knew that.
And Moses knows that when one servant dies,
“Jehovah, the God
of the spirit of all people,”
will raise up another living servant
to serve within the theocratic structure,
just as Jehovah sees fit.
So, what does Jehovah now do?
Well, let’s look at verse 18:
“So Jehovah said to Moses:
“‘Take Joshua the son of Nun,
a man in whom there is spirit,
and lay your hand on him.’”
So now Jehovah picks Joshua.
Joshua was a spiritual man.
He proved his loyalty
and obedience for years.
However, Joshua was not to be
a Moses junior.
The arrangement was changing,
and it would not be a one-man show.
Joshua would now fit
into a new organizational role.
What would that be?
Well, let’s look at verses 19 and 20:
“Then stand him [Joshua]
“before Eleazar the priest
and before all the assembly,
“and you must commission him
before their eyes.
“You are to confer
some of your authority on him
“[notice, not all the authority, but some],
so that all the assembly of the Israelites
may listen to him.”
So here we see the difference in this role
becoming clear.
Joshua was not to be like Moses
in knowing Jehovah face-to-face.
Not all of Moses’ authority
was to transfer over to Joshua,
only what was needed
for Joshua to have the respect of the nation.
And now notice verse 21:
“He will stand before Eleazar the priest,
“who will inquire in his behalf
by the judgment of the Urim before Jehovah.”
Do we see the difference?
Joshua was now to work with the high priest
to ascertain the divine will.
Yes, Joshua was capable,
but he was more than capable
and God-fearing.
Joshua was a modest man and a humble man,
and he accepted this new arrangement.
Well, Joshua had already been molded
on the Great Potter’s wheel
for some forty years
of wilderness wandering
—discipline that he personally
did not deserve.
But now, in accepting this new arrangement,
this molding process would continue.
How would it continue?
Well, we see Jehovah
now using two imperfect men
—an administrator and a high priest—
to balance each other out and to make sure
that Jehovah’s perfect will took place.
So, now, two imperfect people
making sure that Jehovah’s perfect will
moved forward
—this would be the arrangement.
For example, during the time period
of the kings,
when King Uzziah circumvented
the theocratic arrangement,
it was high priest Azariah
who reproved him for this unlawful act.
Or when high priest Abiathar proved disloyal,
it was King Solomon who dismissed him
from the priesthood.
So we see the balance of two imperfect men.
When one was weak, the other proved strong.
Well, what do we learn?
Well, we’re learning that Jehovah
—again, “the God
of the spirit of all people”—
is not dependent on just one person,
nor is he dependent in our case at Bethel
on just one department.
And that is why we work together;
this is why we foster warm feelings
in relationships between departments.
Because we need each other.
So each of us needs to be humble enough
to ask for help when needed
and yet unselfish enough to provide resources
so that others can get Jehovah’s work done.
And we see evidence.
We see evidence today
of how Jehovah is getting his work done.
Look at what he is accomplishing.
Jehovah is continuing to raise up
qualified servants
—again, to shepherd and lead his people
as he sees fit.
When it comes
to world headquarters departments’ oversight
or branch committee members,
department overseers, construction overseers,
these individuals are like Joshua,
who are willing to work together
and to stay on the Potter’s wheel
and be molded by Jehovah.
Why?
So that we do not become, as verse 17 says,
“as sheep that have no shepherd.”
But in reality, all of us,
whether we are
in positions of oversight or not,
want Jehovah, the Great Potter,
to mold us—keep molding us.
And yet, frankly, it can be challenging
—challenging at times to stay
on the Potter’s wheel
and not allow the imperfections of others
to push us off
or the organizational changes that take place
to knock us down.
For example, as Jehovah continues
to refine his organization,
adjustments are made.
And perhaps in the process,
our assignment is changed,
and our feelings get hurt by the change.
Or perhaps our feelings get hurt
by the way that change was implemented.
So when you feel that you’ve been caught
in a pinch-point
between the moving parts of the organization
or, more specifically, when you feel
pressure being applied upon you
as you spin on the wheel of the Great Potter,
that is when we beg Jehovah
—beg Jehovah to help us remain moist;
beg Jehovah to help us remain pliable
during this molding process.
And tell Jehovah, “Jehovah, it’s not easy.”
Tell him how you feel:
“Please help me Jehovah.
I want to be molded by you.”
And then we’re patient.
Be patient and try to see the big picture.
What is the big picture?
The big picture is
that Jehovah is using imperfect people
to work with imperfect people
—that’s all he has at present—
and that Jehovah is teaching us.
He is teaching us how to make peace
with imperfection.
The big picture is
how much Jehovah is accomplishing
with so little.
When we meditate on that,
we can see the value of working together.
And when we work together,
that’s when Jehovah
accomplishes the most.
So it’s a fact,
the personnel in God’s visible organization
will change.
And it will continue to change.
Whether that be due to death
or other circumstances,
the personnel will change.
And yet, the change
does not cripple the work.
Why?
Because this is Jehovah’s work;
it’s not man’s.
So let’s be confident that Jehovah
—again, “Jehovah, the God
of the spirit of all people”—
will continue to raise up
humble (imperfect, yes, but humble),
imperfect overseers to shepherd his people
as he sees fit.
And rest assured that Jehovah will continue
to guide and lead his organization,
his global organization,
to spiritual success.